Nathan MVC Framework!

Welcome to what is probably one of the most basic PHP MVC frameworks you'll find.

The idea of Nathan MVC (I honestly couldn't think of a better name) is for PHP developers not necessarily versed on the basics of the Model View Controller pattern to have a framework clean of clutter and unnecessary addons, so they can focus on exploring the fundamentals of the pattern while having a working example from the very first step.

Nathan MVC comes with a .htaccess file built to allow /controller/action/id style URL requests, error and home controller and model classes which act as examples, and a basic main template file. There are also four classes and index.php, which form the underlying structure of the framework.

This framework is based on a series of articles I wrote for my portfolio website www.nathandavison.com.

------------
Installation
------------

Simply copy this project to a working Apache web server with PHP. It may work on other web servers, but the /controller/action URL rewriting will only work on Apache out-of-the-box.

Tested versions include Apache 2.2.3 and PHP 5.3.6.

------------
Where to now
------------

If you intend to expand on this framework, your first step is to probably think about where you'll store images, css files and js files (/content and /js ?), and to modify the maintemplate.php file under /views. From there, you can start creating controllers and models appropriately, making sure to extend from the base classes for each (see the existing home and error controllers and models for examples). Then you'll want to match your controller structure in the views directory, and create a view file for each of your controller's actions/methods (again, home and error can be used as an example). Finally, you'll want to include/require any non view PHP file you create (e.g. controllers, methods, etc) inside index.php. You don't need to include the files in /views, as this is done automatically based on the URL being requested.

With this all done, any controller, action and view setup you create should be viewable via /controller/action.

If you want to extend the capability of your models, such as including the ability for them to interact with a database, your best bet would be to establish your extensions in the BaseModel class's construct method. Since any model should extend from this class, they would therefore inherit any functionality you add. Other than a database connection, other examples include functionality for generating, validating, and sanitizing. For instance, you may want to add a method on BaseModel which sanitizes the data in $_GET and call this method in the construct, so all models you create and extend from BaseModel have safe values in $_GET.